PEFFAPPZTFFLDFŽPFTZIVPKONTAKTY
Today is  Oct 23, 2025   5:17 p.m. - 4. (even) week with classes (WS 2025/2026)    We celebrate the name-day of  Teodor   Česká verze Slovenská verzia 
University information system
Logged in: Eren Ozturk0 messages     0 documents      0 tasks
Course catalogue
Course syllabus EIE70E - Human Computer Interaction (FEM - WS 2025/2026)
Course syllabus EIE70E - Human Computer Interaction (FEM - WS 2025/2026)
1
SyllabusCourse syllabus
2
CzechEnglish
Title:	Human Computer Interaction - INFOA3v
English title:	Human Computer Interaction
Course code:	EIE70E
Guaranteed by:	Department of Information Engineering (FEM)
Faculty:	Faculty of Economics and Management
Semester:	WS 2025/2026
Mode of completion:	Exam (5 credits)
Language:	English
Mode of study:	full-time, other
Guarantor:	Ing. Josef Pavlíček, Ph.D.
 
Hours per week, examination:
lecture	2 hours weekly
2 hours weekly
seminar	1 hour weekly
1 hour weekly
Annotation:
This subject takes deep focus at GUI development process problem. For common software products is necessary to be able defining smart user interface according to user requirements and user Mind Model. Graduate student gain deep skills at Human Interface Designing process according to ability using Ergonomics technics. Student will be practicing ASCI ART, Paper Prototyping, and using graphical tools like GIMP, FLASH, and VISIO etc.
 
Prerequsites:
Basic skill to use PC, basic knowledge of elementary informatics (computer graphics, sw analysis and algorithms knowledge)
 
Recommended optional programme components:
Component-based SW Development
 
Course objectives:
The aim of the course is to teach students the basics of designing a usable user interface (User Experience Design).
 
Knowledge:
The students get basic theoretical knowledge in human-computer relations in the terms of user friendly inter-face.
 
Skills:
The students are able to apply their knowledge to work in the area computers. They are skilled to consider proc and cons of various interfaces. Competencies - making judgments The students are able to communicate with expert about pros and cons of various users interfaces. They also understand the recommendation provided by the expert. * Competencies - communication The graduates can apply their knowledge to communicate advantages and disadvantages of computers and ICT in general in terms of their interface
 
Competence - Communication:
The students get basic theoretical knowledge in human-computer relations in the terms of user friendly inter-face.
 
Competence - Opinion:
The students get basic theoretical knowledge in human-computer relations in the terms of user friendly inter-face.
 
Competence - Education:
- learning skills
The graduates receive wide knowledge of a discipline on those they can continue in further studies.
 
Learning activities and teaching methods:
The course contains theoretical lectures where the explanations are presented. Practical work is done in seminars. The students discuss during the seminars various aspects of man-compter interaction. They also design the appropriate user friendly user interface.
 
Assessment methods and criteria:
For course passing is necessarily to gain credit and pass final exam. Conditions for credit is audience min. 75 % ,pass final credit test and present semester work.

Final exam is written and oral. Student must present his/her knowledge and skills gained during lectures and courses.
 
Literature:
Basic:
Language of instruction: English
Jakob Nielsen's Alertbox, April 14, 2003 Paper Prototyping
Kim Goodwin (Author), Alan Cooper (Foreword) Designing for the Digital Age How to Create Human-Centered Products and Services
About Face 2.0 The Essentials of Interaction Design by Alan Cooper and Robert Reimann (Mar 17, 2003)
Recommended:
Language of instruction: English
The Inmates Are Running the Asylum Why High Tech Products Drive Us Crazy and How to Restore the Sanity by Alan Cooper (Feb 24, 2004)
About Face 3 The Essentials of Interaction Design by Alan Cooper, Robert Reimann and David Cronin (May 7, 2007)
 
Credit allocation:
Type of teaching method	Daily attendance
Hours	Credits
Project, semester assignments	34 h	1,4
Individual preparation	43 h	1,7
Consultations	12 h	0,5
Examination, prescribed credits (pass/fail)	24 h	1,0
Lectures	8 h	0,3
Exercises/Seminars	4 h	0,2
Total	125 h	5
 
Education plan:
Lecture
1.	Introduction to user interface problem subject (UI)
2.	User interface and Ergonomics
3.	Methods of user requirements collection
4.	GUI Usability
5.	User requirements collection methods
6.	User requirements collection methods examples (paper prototype, ASCI ART, UseCase,Scenario
7.	Flash prototype, ASCI prototype, Graphical prototype
8.	Modeling open source tools - GIMP
9.	E-Shop example
10.	E-Shop UseCase, scenarios and GUI Modeling
11.	E-Shop finishing
12.	Usability testing (Usability Lab - optional visit)
Seminar
1.	Exercise:Team game:

    prepare team logo must talk:
        place of company businesses (town where is company placed)
        name of company
        motto company
        origin reason
    20 minutes, don't use characters or words, if numbers only 2
2.	Paper prototyping
3.	UI Specification training
4.	UI Design for civil aircraft navigation
5.	Finish student work from last exerciser
6.	Custom UI Specification semester work

Last modification made by Jaroslav Roth on 20/03/2025.
Type of output	
PDF output (PDF)
In case of an electronic signature an unsigned version is displayed on the screen. The signed version will appear in the storage approximately within 5 minutes.
 Generate as a print task in the background
 Submit document course syllabus to person's storage

