PEFFAPPZTFFLDFŽPFTZIVPKONTAKTY
Today is  Oct 23, 2025   5:17 p.m. - 4. (even) week with classes (WS 2025/2026)    We celebrate the name-day of  Teodor   Česká verze Slovenská verzia 
University information system
Logged in: Eren Ozturk0 messages     0 documents      0 tasks
Course catalogue
Course syllabus EAE56E - Applied Mathematics for IT (FEM - WS 2025/2026)
Course syllabus EAE56E - Applied Mathematics for IT (FEM - WS 2025/2026)
1
SyllabusCourse syllabus
2
CzechEnglish
Title:	Applied Mathematics for IT - INFOA3
English title:	Applied Mathematics for IT
Course code:	EAE56E
Guaranteed by:	Department of Systems Engineering (FEM)
Faculty:	Faculty of Economics and Management
Semester:	WS 2025/2026
Mode of completion:	Exam (5 credits)
Language:	English
Mode of study:	full-time, other
Guarantor:	Ing. Tereza Horáková, Ph.D.
 
Hours per week, examination:
lecture	2 hours weekly
2 hours weekly
seminar	1 hour weekly
1 hour weekly
Annotation:
Overview of linear algebra and operation research methods, their mathematical background and applications, classification of the decision problems making in AI and solving algorithms. Theoretical base of mathematical methods used in economy for analysis and optimal control of systems in AFC. Examples of simple applications.
 
Prerequsites:
Overview of linear algebra and operation research methods, their mathematical background and applications, classification of the decision problems making in AI and solving algorithms.
Theoretical base of mathematical methods used in economy for analysis and optimal control of systems in AFC. Examples of simple applications.
 
Recommended optional programme components:
Operations Research and Systems Analysis
Project Management Methods
 
Course objectives:
-- item not defined --
 
Knowledge:
Graduates have basic theoretical knowledge in theory and application of the OR/MS models - optimization models (linear optimization model and transportation model), game models and decision models, multiple criteria models. They are able to apply mathematical models in theory and practice. Graduates are able to solve typical management problems, select correct model for problem solving, apply the appropriate software systems. They are familiar with interpretation of solution and its implementation.
 
Skills:
Graduates can apply their theoretical and practical knowledge in creative solutions of well structured problems into problems in various type of organizations. They can work as members of professional decision teams at the level of lower and middle management.
 
Competence - Communication:
They are able to communicate with experts from other fields in order to get necessary information for correct formulation of mathematical model. They are able to communicate with customers and express their demands. Graduates can work in a team and successfully work under leadership of qualified experts. They are able to cooperate in decision process and interpretation of solution.
 
Competence - Opinion:
Graduates are able to understand the practical problems from the point of view of the system access and the application of exact methods. They are able to distinguish the main parts of the problem, their partial goals and methodology.
 
Competence - Education:
Graduates have appropriate skills for further independent learning; they are well oriented in the basic terms of operational research. Various following subjects develop knowledge in the bachelor study.
 
Learning activities and teaching methods:
The theoretical knoweldge is provide by through the lectures. The skilss and competencies are developed in seminars. For the lectures and seminars LMS Moodle system is used where the background materials for study and tests, excercises for the students and self-assesment tools are located. It enables individual work of the students out of classes.
 
Assessment methods and criteria:
*Requirement pass
Participation in contact teaching (if the student misses more than 20% of classes without accountable reason s/he is not eligible for the exam till s/he does not comply with additional requirements announced by teachers) and completion of multiply choice self tests in Moodle (60%).
*Exam
Combination of written exam and oral exam. Three theoretical questions, two small and two large examples check the knowledge of the students. If the students receive less than 50% of the points from the test, they have to re-sit the written part of the exam in another term and cannot sit oral exam. Oral exam follows the test questions.
 
Literature:
Basic:
Dantzig, G. B. Linear Programming and Extensions, Princeton, 1998,648 pp., ISBN 9780691059136.
Turban, E., Meredith, J.R. Fundamentals of Management Science. IRWIN 1991. ISBN 0-256-08373-8.
Recommended:
Lawrence, J. A., Pasternack, B. A. Applied Management Science Modeling, Spreadsheet Analysis, and Communication for Decision Making, 2. vyd. New York Wiley & Sons, 2002. 649 s. ISBN 0-471-39190-5.
Stevenson, W. J. Management science, Irwin, Boston, 1989
Anderson, D. R. at all Management Science Quantitative Approaches to Decision Making, West Publ., New York, 1994
Bonini, C.P., Hausman, W.H., Bierman, H. Quantitative Analysis for Management. USA IRWIN Mc Grav, 1997.
 
Credit allocation:
Type of teaching method	Daily attendance
Hours	Credits
Practice/internships	10 h	0,4
Individual preparation	12 h	0,5
Consultations	10 h	0,4
Examination, prescribed credits (pass/fail)	57 h	2,3
Lectures	24 h	1,0
Exercises/Seminars	12 h	0,5
Total	125 h	5
 
Education plan:
Lecture
1.	Vector spaces, vectors
2.	Matrix, elimination procedures
3.	System of linear equations
4.	Linear optimisation model
5.	Post-optimisation result analysis of linear model
6.	Duality theory
7.	Simple transportation systems
8.	Distribution models
9.	Multiple objectives optimisation model
10.	Multiple attributes decision model
11.	Game theory
12.	Decision making model
Seminar
1.	Vectors and matrices operations
2.	System of linear equations - Jordanien elimination methods
3.	Linear optimization model - simplex algorithm, postoptimization analysis
4.	Transportation model, Vogels method, MODI method
5.	Multiple criteria decisiom models, the AHP method
6.	Matrix game, decision model

Last modification made by Ing. Tomáš Martínek, Ph.D. on 26/09/2025.
Type of output	
PDF output (PDF)
In case of an electronic signature an unsigned version is displayed on the screen. The signed version will appear in the storage approximately within 5 minutes.
 Generate as a print task in the background
 Submit document course syllabus to person's storage
