PEFFAPPZTFFLDFŽPFTZIVPKONTAKTY
Today is  Oct 23, 2025   5:17 p.m. - 4. (even) week with classes (WS 2025/2026)    We celebrate the name-day of  Teodor   Česká verze Slovenská verzia 
University information system
Logged in: Eren Ozturk0 messages     0 documents      0 tasks
Course catalogue
Course syllabus ELE37E_1 - Foreign Language - Czech A1 - EM, INFO, BA - 1st term (FEM - WS...
Course syllabus ELE37E_1 - Foreign Language - Czech A1 - EM, INFO, BA - 1st term (FEM - WS 2025/2026)
1
SyllabusCourse syllabus
2
CzechEnglish
Title:	Foreign Language - Czech A1 - EM, INFO, BA - 1. semestr
English title:	Foreign Language - Czech A1 - EM, INFO, BA - 1st term
Course code:	ELE37E_1
Guaranteed by:	Department of Languages (FEM)
Faculty:	Faculty of Economics and Management
Semester:	WS 2025/2026
Mode of completion:	Pass credit (2 credits)
Language:	English
Mode of study:	full-time, other
Guarantor:	PhDr. Martina Jarkovská, Ph.D.
 
Hours per week, examination:
seminar	2 hours weekly
Annotation:
The subject is created for students with zero knowledge of Czech but it takes into account that the students will live in the Czech environment and every day they will try to communicate in Czech language. The students will be introduced to the Czech language system and they will learn to express in Czech the information about themselves and their environment. They will be able to communicate in basic situations at university premises, in a shop, in a restaurant, in the town. They will learn vocabulary concerning the taught topics, forms of verbs in the present and past tense, forms of nouns and adjectives in appropriate casesand future verb forms. They will also get to know the Czech culture. The subject is A1 level according to the European Framework for Languages.
 
Prerequsites:
None
 
Recommended optional programme components:
None
 
Course objectives:
The subject is created for students with zero knowledge of Czech but it takes into account that the students will live in the Czech environment and every day they will try to communicate in Czech language. The students will be introduced to the Czech language system and they will learn to express in Czech the information about themselves and their environment. They will be able to communicate in basic situations at university premises, in a shop, in a restaurant, in the town. They will learn vocabulary concerning the taught topics, forms of verbs in the present tense, forms of nouns and adjectives in appropriate cases. They will also get to know the Czech culture. The subject is A1 level according to the European Framework for Languages.
 
Knowledge:
Students understand familiar and basic expressions whose aim is to meet particular needs and they can use these expressions and phrases. They can introduce themselves and ask easy questions concerning personal information, for example about their home, family, studies and other familiar things. They are able to participate in a simple and slower conversation.
 
Skills:
They understand simple phrases in shorter, simple texts and they can look up names, words and basic phrases. Based on given information, they can orientate themselves in texts using words or shorter declarative sentences or questions.
 
Competence - Communication:
They are familiar with basic and most frequent grammatical structures and sentence types which make up their acquired vocabulary.
 
Competence - Opinion:
They have a basic scope of simple expressions concerning personal data and needs of particular nature. They can follow a clearly pronounced speech with longer intervals for better comprehension.
 
Competence - Education:
They can read and write phrases, sentences, compound sentences and even shorter texts. They can participate in a simple conversation with native speakers.
 
Learning activities and teaching methods:
Classes are practical in terms of learning the foreign language. The classes are focused on developing and integrating all language skills. Students work with simple Czech texts and learn to handle and actively respond to basic communication situations. They practise listening and comprehension of simple Czech texts. All necessary materials, including preliminary tests are available via LMS Moodle.
 
Assessment methods and criteria:
A two-term subject is concluded at the end of both winter and summer terms by the credit acquired for meeting the following requirements: 75% attendance, active participation of students in the lessons, delivery of presentation and passing the final credit test (65% of the total score is needed). Detailed information on the test content will be provided to students during the term. Students are not allowed to enrol into the summer term unless they are credited for the winter term. In the summer term, the final written test is followed by an oral exam at which the students are required to deliver their personalised speech on topics covered during the lessons and announced by the teacher a month before the exam, at least. The student has about a 15 minute time to prepare the answers. The oral exam is held in a form of interaction between the student and the teacher who asks additional questions to check knowledge, skills and the competencies of the student. The final grade is due to be announced and recorded in the student's grade book on a day of the exam. Student's oral exam final grade is based on his/her fluency, comprehensibility, content, pronunciation and intonation, morphological and syntactic correctness. An oral exam final grade combines the written test results and oral performance results.
 
Literature:
Basic:
Language of instruction: English
HOLÁ, Lída; BOŘILOVÁ, Pavla. Čeština Expres 1 (A1/1). 1st ed. Prague Akropolis, 2010. 96 p. ISBN 978-80-87310-13-7.
HOLÁ, Lída; BOŘILOVÁ, Pavla. Čeština Expres 2 (A1/2). 1st ed. Prague Akropolis, 2011. 96 p. ISBN 978-80-87481-26-4.
Recommended:
Language of instruction: English
REMEDIOSOVÁ, Helena; ČECHOVÁ, Elga; PUTZ, Harry. Do you want to speak Czech? 1. 4th ed. Liberec Finidr, 2002. 414 p. ISBN 80-902165-8-7.
CONFORTIOVÁ, Helena; CVEJNOVÁ, Jitka; ČADSKÁ, Milada. Učebnice češtiny pro výuku v zahraničí. 1st Part. 1st ed. Prague Karolinum, 2002. 252 p. ISBN 80-246-0530-9.
CONFORTIOVÁ, Helena; CVEJNOVÁ, Jitka; ČADSKÁ, Milada. Učebnice češtiny pro výuku v zahraničí. 2nd Part. 1st ed. Prague Karolinum, 2002. 499 p. ISBN 80-246-0560-0.
 
Credit allocation:
Type of teaching method	Daily attendance
Hours	Credits
Individual preparation	18 h	0,7
Examination, prescribed credits (pass/fail)	8 h	0,3
Exercises/Seminars	24 h	1,0
Total	50 h	2
 
Education plan:
Seminar
1.	Lesson 1: What is it? Who is it? What is your name? Where are you from?
2.	Lesson 1: What do you study? Verb conjugation. Numbers 0 - 10. Telephone conversations. Email.
3.	Lesson 2: Oreintation. Can you tell me the way, please? Modal verbs.
4.	Lesson 2: What is your address? Verb conjugation. Numbers 11 - 100.
5.	Lesson 3: In the restaurant. Eating and drinking list.
6.	Lesson 3: I like. Singular accusative. Hobbies.
7.	Lesson 4: My family. Possessive pronouns. Adjectives.
8.	Lesson 4: Describing family members. Verb conjugation. Singular and plural accusative.
9.	Lesson 5: When do we meet? At what time? What is the date today?
10.	Lesson 5: Modal verbs. Do you want to go to/for? I like doing.
11.	Lesson 6: Famous people. Who was it? What did you do yesterday? Past tense.
12.	Lesson 6: Where were you? Singular locative.

Last modification made by Jaroslav Roth on 17/09/2025.
Type of output	
PDF output (PDF)
In case of an electronic signature an unsigned version is displayed on the screen. The signed version will appear in the storage approximately within 5 minutes.
 Generate as a print task in the background
 Submit document course syllabus to person's storage
